- [Instructor] Before we get started building
a web applications with Spring Boot,
I want to talk a little bit about what comes
with a web starter.
And web applications are by far the most common places
to start with Spring Boot.
So we're going to use this as an example
of what comes with the traditional starter.
Central using web starters are baseline.
Let's just discuss what comes with them
with web applications.
Now in the spring world, and especially with Spring Boot,
there's no difference between the traditional
HTML based-web application or one that does web services.
As a matter of fact, a single application can contain both
with zero effort.
Now, both of these leverage the spring-boot-starter-web
module in order to do the work.
And that package has a mixture
of components needed to get apps up and running
quickly from the ground up.
The dependencies that are included
with spring-boot-starter-web include both
spring dependencies and those from vendors like Apache
but really Spring Boot is doing all of the management
of the dependencies, including the versions
to ensure that there's no version mismatch.
One of the most popular parts
of spring-boot-starter-web is the embedded Tomcat server.
By default, you're going to get that out of the box,
which is how you can build an executable JAR file
that serves a web application.
Now that embedded Tomcat can be replaced
with jetty or other app servers, if you prefer.
And there's really good documentation
in the Spring Boot guide
on how to do that transfer from Tomcat to something else.
You can also remove Tomcat completely
and create a WAR file instead of an executable JAR,
if your use case requires that.
Now one thing to note, is that the Tomcat you get
is very opinionated but default configuration,
and it's not the most secure way you can deploy
on to Tomcat.
So you need to consider this in your infrastructure
especially if you are dealing with cloud deployments
where you're going to public clouds
without some sort of proxy layer
in front of your applications.
We're going to go more into how to configure Tomcat
in the next video, but for now,
just keep it in mind that the default configuration
may not be the best for real-world examples.
JSON Marshaller is another value out of Spring Boot.
With spring-boot-starter-web,
you get a set of JSON Marshaller specifically
from the Jackson libraries,
to do JSON marshaling and unmarshalling.
Now, obviously this is very useful for RESTful web services
but that's not the only use case
for JSON Marshallers in an application.
And I'm sure if you come up with some many possible
use cases just by thinking about it,
including things like reading from the file system
or reading from a message listener,
as long as they're structured in JSON format.
Now, by default, a spring application that's serving
a response body, or accepting a request body,
specifically of a web service application path,
you're going to get automatic marshaling
and unmarshalling of the JSON payload.
But you can always get a handle to that.
Marshaller so that you can do your own
in the various use cases that you come up with.
By default, you're also going to get some test dependencies
that help you test the web services themselves
to things like JSON path.
Spring Boot also includes a default logging framework .
SLF4J is the chosen library,
and they do all of their logging with that,
and expose it for you to use as well.
Now, Spring Boot does build its own loggers
and you can leverage them or you can build your own logger
if you choose.
Now, I traditionally just stick with the one that comes
with Spring Boot because it works for my needs.
You can leverage properties to modify the logging,
the logging formats, or the log level itself.
You're also going to get a variation of log back logging
included for free if you choose to use that.
Now, of course, you're going to see spring libraries
because after all this is Spring Boot.
One of the first libraries that you're going to see
is Spring Boot auto-configure.
And we've already alluded to this,
in how spring does auto configuration.
And we'll dig into it a little bit more.
But again, this is where the magic
of Spring Boot comes from.
You'll also see that spring-boot-starter-web
brings in the three separate boot artifacts,
Tomcat starter, and a logging starter,
which you've just seen.
All of those is a nice dependency mix that comes with it.
But in addition to the boot starters,
you're going to get some core spring libraries
as you might expect.
You're going to get spring core, spring AOP,
beans, context, expressions,
and those are used
for those spring expression language constructs.
You're also going to get the ability to load property resources
through those core libraries.
You're also going to get Spring Web and Spring WebMvc
in order to do our web operations.
Now, there's just a few more libraries here
that you're going to get.
One of the first ones that we've actually
used is SnakeYAML.
SnakeYAML is what allows us to read those YAML files
for application at YAML,
and convert them to properties at runtime
which you can actually use within your application.
Now you're also going to get a starter test module.
And this includes J unit as well as everything
that you need to test a Spring Boot application.
Now each starter throughout the entire starter
next spring that out page,
has its own set of behaviors and properties
that it brings in,
many of which bring in other starters as well.
This is going to take you quite a bit of knowledge
to grasp what you get,
and it's not something that we can wrap into a course.
It's something that you're going to have to get
by using Spring Boot in various methods
throughout the examples that spring provides.